{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red17\green17\blue17;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Introduction to the assignment \

\b0 Node.js is a JavaScript-based environment which you can use to create web-servers and networked applications. You can also use it to perform helpful tasks on your computer such as concatenating and minifying JavaScript files and compiling Sass files into CSS.\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 1.	NodeJs Installation\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 Installed using the command brew install node. To see if Node is installed, type 
\f1 node -v
\f0  in Terminal. This should print the version number so you\'92ll see something like this v6.10.3. (Treehouse Installation Guides , n.d.)\
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-360\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cf0 2.	NPM\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 NPM is a package manager that makes installing Node packages faster and easier. A package, also called a module, is just a code library that extends Node by adding useful features. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf0 NPM stands for node package manager. It enables sharing and reusing code and also update the shared code. \
The reusable codes are referred to as packages or modules. A package is a directory with one or more files and a 
\f1 package.json
\f0  file which contains metadata concerning the package.\
In earlier versions of node, npm was installed differently but in the later versions, it is incorporated in nodejs therefore after installing node, you can confirm its installation by checking the version\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 $ npm \'96v\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 NPM is responsible for the online repositories of nodejs and also for installing and managing nodejs packages. To install a nodejs module, one uses the following npm command:\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 $ npm install [module name]\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 NPM can install the modules locally or globally. Local installation refers to installation into the node_modules folder in a node application directory while global installation refers to a situation where the module is stored in the system directory. Global installation is done using the global flag 
\f1 --global
\f0  or 
\f1 -g
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-340\sl360\slmult1\partightenfactor0
\cf2 To see if NPM is installed, type npm -v in Terminal. This should print the version number such as v\cf0  \cf2 5.0.2. (Treehouse Installation Guides , n.d.)\
\
}